Unlike the previous assignment, neither of the two paradigms are clearly superior for this task. Both functional and logical programming lend themselves very well to recursion, which is often useful as a binary tree is a recursive data structure. In broad terms, the logical implementation is a lot shorter. This is unsurprising as Prolog operates at a much higher level of abstraction than C and about half of my C code would not have been necessary had I chosen a higher level language.

One particular strength of logical programming in this scenario is the ability to define a binary tree in terms of the properties that hold true about it; while both the logical and the functional version implement a binary tree, only the logical program actually explains what a binary tree is in code. In other languages you can define types in terms of the attributes and methods it has, or in terms of how it is represented in memory, but declaring more general properties to be true of a type may also be useful in other languages. Perhaps you could require in the type signature of a function that its parameter must be an integer greater than 2, and an *integer greater than 2* would be a type as defined by the language.

While they seem very different, there are some interesting similarities between both implementations. The insert operation considers 4 cases; indicated by the four predicates in the logical implementation and the four return statements (not including the NULL guard) in the functional. And the three types of orders are almost identical except for some reordering and renaming. One of the helpful quirks of Prolog was that I could define the elements of a tuple in the predicate signature, which means I can change the order without having to change any of the actual content of the predicate, whereas in the functional implementation the order of the list had to be defined in the function body.

Overall I don't think the differences between the two paradigms are that stark. They both make heavy use of recursion, and FP can very easily resemble a declarative language depending on how your functions are named. For example I could rename `addNodeToTree` to `treeWithNodeAdded` and it would basically be a declaration rather than a command even though the code has not changed. Perhaps, given the rise in popularity of FP, logical programming is due a renaissance too.

